• 𝐋𝐢𝐧𝐮𝐱 & 𝐍𝐞𝐭𝐰𝐨𝐫𝐤𝐢𝐧𝐠
1. Explain the complete request flow from a browser to a Kubernetes pod.
2. Difference between TCP and UDP. Where have you used each?
3. How does DNS resolution work internally?
4. How would you debug high CPU, memory, or disk utilization on a Linux server?
5. Explain Load Balancer, Reverse Proxy, and Ingress with real examples.

• 𝐃𝐨𝐜𝐤𝐞𝐫 & 𝐊𝐮𝐛𝐞𝐫𝐧𝐞𝐭𝐞𝐬
1. What happens internally when you run docker run?
2. Difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT.
3. Why is a pod stuck in CrashLoopBackOff? How would you debug it?
4. Difference between Deployment, StatefulSet, DaemonSet, and Job.
5. Readiness Probe vs Liveness Probe.
6. Kubernetes pods are Running but users receive 503 errors. What will you check?
7. How does Kubernetes Service Discovery work?
8. Explain ConfigMaps and Secrets. How do you manage them across environments?

• 𝐂𝐈/𝐂𝐃
1. Explain your CI/CD pipeline from code commit to production.
2. How do you implement zero-downtime deployments?
3. How would you optimize a pipeline that takes 25 minutes to complete?
4. How do you implement rollback if deployment fails?
5. How do you manage secrets securely in CI/CD pipelines?

• 𝐓𝐞𝐫𝐫𝐚𝐟𝐨𝐫𝐦 & 𝐂𝐥𝐨𝐮𝐝
1. How does Terraform state locking work?
2. Difference between count and for_each.
3. How do you migrate Terraform state without recreating resources?
4. What is Terraform Drift? How do you detect it?
5. Explain your Terraform module structure for multiple environments.
6. Difference between IAM Roles and IAM Policies.
7. Explain VPC, Subnets, NAT Gateway, and Internet Gateway.

• 𝐌𝐨𝐧𝐢𝐭𝐨𝐫𝐢𝐧𝐠 & 𝐓𝐫𝐨𝐮𝐛𝐥𝐞𝐬𝐡𝐨𝐨𝐭𝐢𝐧𝐠
1. Difference between logs, metrics, and traces.
2. How do you investigate a sudden spike in application latency?
3. Explain your monitoring and alerting strategy.
4. Walk me through a production issue you resolved.

• 𝐒𝐞𝐜𝐮𝐫𝐢𝐭𝐲 & 𝐏𝐫𝐨𝐝𝐮𝐜𝐭𝐢𝐨𝐧
1. How do you secure container images before deployment?
2. How do you implement RBAC in Kubernetes?
3. How do you manage secrets in production?
4. How would you design a disaster recovery strategy?
5. How do you reduce cloud costs without affecting availability?
6. Explain one challenging production incident and how you resolved it.𝐃𝐞𝐯𝐎𝐩𝐬 𝐅𝐮𝐧𝐝𝐚𝐦𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐚𝐥𝐬 𝐘𝐨𝐮 𝐌𝐮𝐬𝐭 𝐎𝐰𝐧
🐧 Linux
• How do you change file permissions in Linux?
• How do you search for a file by name in Linux?
Explain your current AWS architecture end-to-end.
How do you design a highly available application in AWS?
Explain the complete request flow from Route 53 → ALB → EKS/EC2.
How do you secure workloads running in AWS?
Difference between Security Groups and NACLs with real use cases.
How do you troubleshoot high CPU utilization on an EC2 instance?
How have you implemented Auto Scaling in your project?

Explain Kubernetes architecture in detail.
How does the scheduler decide where to place Pods?
Difference between Deployment, StatefulSet, DaemonSet, and Job.
How do rolling updates and rollbacks work internally?
Explain Kubernetes networking architecture.
How does Ingress communicate with services?

Explain your Terraform project structure.
How do you manage Terraform state files?
Why do we use remote backends?
Explain state locking and its importance.
How do you handle multiple environments using Terraform?
What are Terraform modules and how have you used them?


Explain your CI/CD pipeline architecture.
How is Jenkins integrated with Kubernetes?
How do you implement automated deployments?
What strategies do you use for deployment rollbacks?

How do you optimize Docker image size?
Explain write multi-stage Docker builds code.
How do you scan Docker images for vulnerabilities?
How do you troubleshoot container startup failures?

Production application is inaccessible after deployment. How will you troubleshoot?
One Kubernetes node suddenly goes down. What happens and how do you recover?
Terraform apply failed after creating some resources. What steps will you take?

I also provide 1-to-1 mentorship for DevOps, SRE, Cloud, AWS, Kubernetes, Terraform, CI/CD, and interview preparation.

• What is an inode and how does it relate to files?
2. Suppose I want to migrate infrastructure from on-premises to AWS. What are the steps that need to be followed?
3. In your resume, you mentioned that you implemented infrastructure automation and reduced project effort, human effort, and cost. Can you elaborate more on the project you worked on?
4. What is the purpose of VPC peering? While configuring peering, what areas should we consider?
5. What are the purposes of ALB and NLB? Which one is faster, and why?
6. You mentioned cost optimization in your resume. Can you explain more about the projects where you implemented it?
7. Have you performed any AWS troubleshooting? If yes, can you provide five examples?
8. A customer reported that an application is running very slowly intermittently. How would you improve the performance?
9. Assume an Auto Scaling Group is not working properly. How would you troubleshoot it?
10. What is the purpose of DNS? What types of DNS records are commonly used, and how does DNS work?
11. You mentioned Transit Gateway. How is it different from DNS?
12. In Terraform, can we use multiple cloud providers?
13. What is the purpose of the terraform init command, and how does Terraform integrate with cloud providers?
14. In Terraform, what is the difference between a provider and a provisioner?
15. What is the purpose of Terraform modules? How many Terraform modules have you worked with?
16. I want to configure management tools to access Terraform provisioners for infrastructure configuration management. According to your knowledge, which provisioner is best?
17. In your previous answer, you mentioned a database reverse proxy. Please explain why we use it.
18. Why is Ansible called idempotent?
19. Do you have any experience with Azure?
20. How is TLS/SSL certificate termination implemented in a load balancer?
☸️ Kubernetes
• How do you ensure zero-downtime deployments?
• Explain rolling updates and rollbacks.
• Pod stuck in CrashLoopBackOff — step-by-step troubleshooting.
• What is the current Kubernetes version you are using?
• Last production issue you faced and how did you resolve it?
• Difference between Pod, Deployment, ReplicaSet, StatefulSet, DaemonSet.
• Difference between ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer.
• What are Taints and Tolerations?

⚙️ CI/CD (Jenkins)
• How do you pass secrets securely in pipelines?
• What types of pipeline failures have you encountered during build or deployment stages?
• How do you troubleshoot CI/CD pipeline failures?
• Jenkins job not triggering after Git commit — how do you fix it?

🐳 Docker
• Difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT.
• COPY vs ADD in Dockerfile — which is preferred and why?
• What is ImagePullBackOff and how do you fix it?
• What command is used to build a Docker image from a Dockerfile?
• How do you clean unused Docker images and containers safely?
• A container keeps restarting — how do you debug it?
• What is the purpose of the docker tag command?

☁️ AWS
• What is AWS Lambda?
• What is the difference between a public subnet and private subnet?
• What is a NAT Gateway and Internet Gateway?

🧱 Terraform
• What is Terraform state and why is it important?
• What is remote backend and state locking?
What is CI/CD?
2. Explain Docker.
3. What is Kubernetes?
4. Explain Jenkins pipeline.
5. Difference between Git and GitHub?
6. Explain infrastructure as code.
7. What is Ansible?
8. Explain containerization.
9. What is cloud computing?
10. Explain Linux commands you use daily.
11. What is Terraform?
12. Explain monitoring tools.
13. Difference between virtualization and containers?
14. What is version control?
15. Explain deployment strategies.
16. What is load balancing?
17. Explain AWS basics.
18. What is automation testing?
19. Explain rollback strategy.
20. Why DevOps is important?
1. How do you separate environments (like Dev, Staging, Prod) within Kubernetes or across clusters?
 2. What is the purpose of a **ServicePort** in Kubernetes?
 3. What is a **Deployment** in K8s, and how does it manage pods?
##AWS (Amazon Web Services)
 1. What are the primary differences between **AWS EC2** and **AWS Fargate**?
 2. Explain the different **Routing Policies** available in **Route 53**.
 3. What is the use of a **Rotation Policy** in AWS KMS (Key Management Service)?
 4. What are the main parameters or attributes used when configuring **Auto Scaling** on AWS?
###Terraform (IaC)
 1. What is the purpose of the **depends_on** meta-argument in Terraform?
 2. How do you view or extract **outputs** in Terraform after a deployment?
 3. What is the use of **terraform taint**, and when should it be applied?
###Docker
1. What is Docker Compose, and why is it used?
 2. How can you run multiple containers on the same port in Docker? (Note: Usually involves a Load Balancer or Reverse Proxy).
 3. What is the purpose of the **EXPOSE** command in a Dockerfile?
 4. If you need to run multiple versions of Python or different base image versions, how do you handle that in a Dockerfile build?
###Linux & Scripting
 1. What does the command **chmod 777** do, and what is the meaning of the permission code **5777**?
 2. Which command is used to substitute a string or pattern within a particular directory in Linux?
 3. How do you filter or search for a specific word/pattern in Linux using **grep** or **sed**?
 4. Write a Python script to search for a specific file within a folder or directory.
###CI/CD & Git**
 1. How do you build **parallel stages** in a Jenkins pipeline?
 2. What is the difference between **git merge** and **git rebase**?
 3. What is meant by "**staging**" in Git?
 4. Explain the concept of Blue-Green Deployment.
5.What is Git stash used for.
6. What is Git commit used for ? Are all git commits will same if we do git rebase?
Day to Day activities as a Devops Engineer?
C/CD  Implementation Work flow on Jenkins?
What you to do if EC2 instances fail ?Where you check?
Flow of Terraform in your project?
Which tool you use for ticketing purpose?
What use as back-end for Aws?
 What is SRE?  
🔹 What is reliability engineering?  
🔹 What is SLA?  
🔹 What is SLO?  
🔹 What is SLI?  
🔹 What is error budget?  
🔹 What is incident management?  
🔹 What is RCA (Root Cause Analysis)?  
🔹 What is postmortem?  
🔹 What is alert fatigue?  

🔹 What is observability?  
🔹 What is monitoring?  
🔹 What is logging?  
🔹 What is tracing?  
🔹 What is centralized logging?  
🔹 What is high availability?  
🔹 What is fault tolerance?  
🔹 What is disaster recovery?  
🔹 What is failover?  
🔹 What is redundancy?  

🔹 What is load balancing?  
🔹 What is autoscaling?  
🔹 What is capacity planning?  
🔹 What is uptime?  
🔹 What is MTTR?  
🔹 What is MTBF?  
🔹 What is blue-green deployment?  
🔹 What is canary deployment?  
🔹 What is chaos engineering?  
🔹 What is health check?  

🔹 What is liveness probe?  
🔹 What is readiness probe?  
🔹 What is golden signal in monitoring?  
🔹 What is toil in SRE?  
🔹 What is on-call support?  
🔹 What is escalation policy?  
🔹 What is production outage?  
🔹 What is service degradation?  
🔹 What is proactive monitoring?  
🔹 What is importance of SRE in production systems?  
-=-=-=
What command you use to write the file?
How do you check the logs if pipeline fails?
Explain IAM Roles and what policies attached?
What is pod? How it is used?
Monitoring Tool in Jira ?
 Your EC2 is running but application is not accessible — what will you check first?
2️⃣ You allowed inbound traffic in Security Group, still unable to connect — why?
3️⃣ What is the difference between Security Group and NACL in real scenarios?
4️⃣ Your Jenkins pipeline failed suddenly — how do you troubleshoot?
5️⃣ How do you design a complete CI/CD pipeline from scratch?
6️⃣ What is Jenkins master-slave architecture and when do you use it?
7️⃣ Docker container is running but app is not accessible — possible reasons?
8️⃣ Kubernetes pod is in CrashLoopBackOff — what steps will you take?
9️⃣ How do you expose an application in Kubernetes for external users?
🔟 Terraform apply failed after partial deployment — how will you recover?
1️⃣1️⃣ Difference between Terraform and Ansible in real-time usage?
1️⃣2️⃣ High CPU utilization on EC2 — how do you handle it?
1️⃣3️⃣ How do you configure alerting for production systems?
1️⃣4️⃣ Production website is down — what is your step-by-step debugging approach?
1️⃣5️⃣ Explain request flow: User → Route53 → CloudFront → ALB → EC2
What is groovy ? How it is used?
Modules in Terraform? Explain in details how you use in project?
Explain your project Flow how you build pipelines?
What are the monitoring tools ? How it can be used?
Write Terraform code for EC2, VPC,S3?
What is statefile in terraform?
Walk me through your day.
What is a package manager?
What are the types of package managers?
What sort of functionalities can we achieve using a package manager?
Can we upgrade or downgrade a particular tool? If yes, how?
What is the difference between sudo & su?
How to provide user sudo-level privileges?
Once we execute any sudo command, what happens in the background?
Have you worked on patching servers?
Server is slow. What will you check first?  
2. CPU high but app healthy. Why?  
3. Memory leak suspected. How will you confirm?  
4. Disk full suddenly. What could cause it?  
5. Logs missing during outage. Why?  
6. SSH access failed. What will you verify?  
7. Port open but app unreachable. Why?  
8. DNS issue affecting application. How will you debug?  
9. Monitoring healthy but users facing issues. Why?  
10. Alerts not triggered during outage. What happened?  
11. CI/CD pipeline stuck. What will you check?  
12. Deployment succeeded but app broken. Why?  
13. Rollback failed. What next?  
14. Wrong version deployed to production. How?  
15. Docker container running but app not responding. Why?  
16. Kubernetes pod crashing repeatedly. What will you debug?  
17. Pod running but service unreachable. Why?  
18. Ingress configured but traffic blocked. What could be wrong?  
19. Terraform apply failed midway. What next?  
20. State drift detected in Terraform. How will you handle it?  
21. Ansible playbook succeeded but config unchanged. Why?  
22. Jenkins agent offline unexpectedly. What will you check?  
23. Git merge conflict delaying deployment. How will you resolve?  
24. GitHub Actions workflow not triggered. Why?  
25. Kafka consumer lag increasing. What could be wrong?  
26. Redis cache misses suddenly high. Why?  
27. Nginx returning 502 errors. What will you investigate?  
28. Elasticsearch cluster red. What does it indicate?  
29. Grafana dashboard showing “No Data”. Why?  
30. Prometheus target DOWN. What will you verify?  
31. Datadog alerts delayed. What could be wrong?  
32. CloudWatch logs missing. What will you check?  
33. SSL certificate expired. Immediate action?  
34. IAM permissions denied unexpectedly. Why?  
35. S3 bucket exposed publicly. What is your response?  
36. Kubernetes secrets leaked accidentally. What next?  
37. High cloud bill detected overnight. What will you investigate?  
38. Auto Scaling not triggering. Why?  
39. Load balancer healthy but users cannot connect. Why?  
 Your Terraform state file got corrupted mid-apply. How do you recover without losing infra?

2. A pod is stuck in CrashLoopBackOff. tell me how you will debugging this ?

3. You need the same infra across Dev, QA & Prod. How do you structure your Terraform code?

4. Deployment shows 0 available pods but 3 desired. What could be wrong? How do you find out?

5.  A teammate manually deleted a resource managed by Terraform. What happens on the next apply? How do you handle it?

6.  A bad release went to production. How do you rollback in Kubernetes with zero downtime?

7.  You're migrating existing AWS resources to Terraform. How do you import them without recreating?

8.  Your service is not reachable from outside the cluster. How do you troubleshoot it end to end?

9.  terraform plan shows a resource will be destroyed & recreated.
How do you avoid downtime?
40. Database latency high after release. What changed?  
41. CronJob not executing. What will you debug?  
42. Backup exists but restore failed. Why?  
43. Security scan failed in pipeline. What next?  
44. Multiple alerts triggered together. How will you prioritize?  
45. Root cause unknown after incident resolved. What now?  
46. Incident recurring repeatedly. What process is missing?  
47. One microservice failure affecting all systems. Why?  
48. Application works locally but fails in production. Why?  
49. Monitoring not aligned with customer experience. What will you improve?  
50. What is your structured approach for any production issue?  
1. Tell me about yourself
2. What are policies in Auto Scaling?
3. How do path-based routing and host-based routing work in ALB, and which has priority?
4. How can you give SSH access to an EC2 instance without sharing the PEM key?
5. What is Terraform lifecycle?
6. Difference between count and for_each in Terraform?
7. What is a data block and how is it different from a dynamic block?
8. What are provisioners in Terraform?
9. What are the parameters of SonarQube and how do you test an application?
10. If production keys are exposed, how do you troubleshoot and resolve the issue?
11. How do you upgrade a Kubernetes cluster without downtime?
12. which Kubernetes version you have used?
13. What are liveness and readiness probes?
14. What are static pods and how do you handle them?
15. Explain niginx pod structure 
16. Explain Kubernetes deployment YAML file
What are the CI/CD tools you have worked with?
What are the different types of pipelines?
Write the stages in Jenkins for a pipeline run.
Advantages of Jenkins
What are parallel stages?
What are distributed executions?
What are the stages in a pipeline?
If a pipeline is getting slower over time, how will you troubleshoot?
1. Self intro
2. do you have some experience on Amazon Connect or Lambda?
3. suppose you have an EC2 instance via SSH, And instance is running, but it is not reachable. So, how are you gonna troubleshoot?
4. what is the difference between security group and network ACL?
5. One problem always comes when your AWS costs suddenly get increased, what would you wanna do to cross verify that?
6. if the Terraform apply has been filled midway, and re apply would be the best option or a bad option?
7.  if you have to structure Terraform for multiple environment, suppose if you have to restructure in Dev also, test also, prod also, then how you gonna do?
8. We know drift happens when resources are changed outside Terraform, So how to detect, what command  can be used to detect the drift and how to prevent that?
9. if the deployment rollout is stuck, what do you check in that situation?
10. what is your future aspiration?
What are taints & tolerations?
If the scheduler has stopped working, which component of Kubernetes is responsible for bringing it up?
What if the Kube API server goes down?


What are the AWS services you have worked on?
I have an EC2 deployed, but it’s not reachable. How to troubleshoot?
My ec2 is in a private subnet and has a public IP. But it's still not able to connect to the internet. Why?
How can I attach public IP to an ec2 which is deployed in a private subnet?
What is an EBS volume?
Your team wants to reduce the size of EBS volume from 300GB to 200GB. How will you do this?
What are the options available to copy data into the S3 bucket?
Have you worked on the patching of AMIs?
What are the properties of load balancers?
How to add an additional EBS volume to EC2?
How can we replicate one RDS instance from one region to another region?
What are storage classes in the S3 bucket?

If 2 people are creating an ec2 instance at the same time using terraform in the same AWS account, what will happen?

I want to create ec2 instances in 2 different AWS accounts using terraform. How can I do this?
What is the difference between CI and CD?
How does a CI/CD pipeline work in real projects?
What happens when a deployment fails?
How do you troubleshoot a production issue?
1. Deployment succeeded but application not working. What will you check first?  
2. Application is slow. How will you identify the bottleneck?  
3. High CPU usage in production. What steps will you take?  
4. Memory usage increasing continuously. What could be the issue?  
5. Disk is full on server. How will you resolve it?  
6. Service is not reachable. How will you debug?  
7. Logs are not showing expected errors. What will you do?  
8. Monitoring shows healthy but users report issues. Why?  
9. Alerts not triggering during outage. What is wrong?  
10. Too many alerts (alert storm). How will you handle it?  
11. CI/CD pipeline failed. How will you debug it?  
12. Build succeeded but deployment failed. What will you check?  
13. Pipeline not triggering automatically. Why?  
14. Secrets exposed in logs. What is your action?  
15. Infrastructure created partially. How will you fix it?  
16. Drift detected in infrastructure. What will you do?  
17. Container running but app not responding. Why?  
18. Pod crashing repeatedly. How will you troubleshoot?  
19. Network issue between services. How will you debug?  
20. Database connection failing. What will you check?  
21. High latency between services. How will you investigate?  
22. Application works locally but fails in production. Why?  
23. Rollback didn’t fix the issue. What next?  
24. Multiple services failing together. Where will you start?  
25. Issue occurs intermittently. How will you debug?  
26. Logs are too noisy. How will you find root cause?  
27. System worked yesterday but failing today. What will you check?  
28. Deployment caused downtime. How will you prevent it?  
29. Monitoring setup missing key metrics. What will you improve?  
30. What is your step-by-step approach to debug any production issue? 
What is Docker and why is it used?
What is the difference between container and VM?
What is Kubernetes and why is it needed?
What is a Pod in Kubernetes?
What is Infrastructure as Code (IaC)?
What is Terraform used for?
What is a VPC in AWS?
What is the difference between public and private subnet?
What is IAM and why is it important?
What is load balancing?
What is auto scaling in cloud?
What is monitoring and why is it required?
What is logging in DevOps?
What are common production issues?
How do you handle system downtime?
What are best practices in DevOps?
1. How do you reduce AWS costs without compromising performance?
2.Have you ever deployed a Docker container on AWS Lambda?If yes briefly explain?
3.Explain the difference between service mesh (Istio/Linkerd) and an ingress controller?
4.Write a CI/CD pipeline for a Java application deploying to Kubernetes for Dev and Prod environments.
5. Explain horizontal vs vertical scaling in real infra scenarios?
6.What kind of security scans you will do on what applications?
7.Have you received any vulnerability scans when you are running security scans like what are the ones you have experienced in your day-to-day activities?
8.Difference between Blue-Green and Canary deployments - when do you use each?
9.What kind of pipelines you are using while setting up Jenkins like can you give an example of any pipeline you have set up?
10.What is TF state file in terraform?
11.What is the infrastructure size you are hosting like how many supports or containers you are managing infra size?
12.Terraform state got corrupted during backend migration. What is your recovery strategy?
1. can you explain VPC architecture?
2. Explain NACL and SG diffrence between them
3. Can you explain the CICD in your organization in your role?
4. can you explain the step-by-step process, like the cardinal steps you have taken to create the cluster?
5. when Pods are in Pending stage, how will you troubleshoot?
6. What is image pull back of?
7. Can you heard about the distroless images?
8. explain your project architecture in the current project?
9. Have you used any other like a tools for secret management?
10. What is the difference between AWS Secret Management and Parameter Store?
11. what are the challenges you are faced in your current project or previous projects?
12. suppose in an application hosted in a ec2 instance through elastic load balancer, you cannot access it, so what are the steps you
13. Explain Policies in Route53
14. Have you got any deployment strategies?
15. What are the differences between Canary and Blue/Green deployment?
16. How do you implement lambda functions?
17. Have you worked on cost optimization?
18. explain Terraform life cycle?
19. explain auto-scaling?
🐳 Docker
 1. Main Docker Network Types
 2. What is the use of Dockerfile?
 3. Why do we use Dockerfile?
 4. Dockerfile Instructions
1. Can you brief your self and your project and responsibilities?
2. How do you migrate a git based repo from one of its kind to another git based repo(like GitHub to GitLab) along with its commit history? what are the steps you follow?
3. Application on AWS EC2 behind the loadbalancer suddenly unavailable, how do you troubleshoot
4. AWS billing increased suddenly, how do you identify the costs
5. A developer asking Ec2 instance for his local deployment, how you will achieve and what type of instance you create and give it to them.
6. In kubernetes a pod is going to crashloopbackoff, how do you troubleshoot.
7. Kubernetes deployment done successfully but unable to access the application externally, how do you troubleshoot.
8. When kubernetes node fails what will happen.
9. In pod configuration what we should do from Production perspective
10. What is Git and why we are using it and what is branching strategy
11. How do you write in yaml to create a ci/cd pipeline from scratch to test and deploy from Dev to UAT
12. what is maven and explain about repositories
13. I have a senerio to deploy an application on 100 servers using Ansible, how do you perform it.
14. Docker containers stopped suddenly after starting, how do you troubleshoot
15. Jenkins pipeline deployment failed in production but working in Dev, how do you troubleshoot and fix the issues.
16. What is argocd and why we are using it
17. what is Gitops
⸻

⚙️ Terraform
 5. How do you execute a script even if the resource is not created?
 6. What is Terraform State File? Why is it used?
 7. What are terraform block and required_providers?
 8. What is remote-exec in Terraform?
 9. What is null_resource in Terraform?

⸻How would you handle downtime in a production AWS application?
How would you secure AWS infrastructure in production?
How would you manage multi-region deployments in AWS?
How would you troubleshoot failed deployments in AWS?
How would you implement auto scaling during high traffic?
How would you configure load balancing for high availability?
How would you manage secrets securely in AWS?
How would you monitor production infrastructure using CloudWatch?
How would you troubleshoot networking issues in a VPC?
How would you optimize AWS cloud costs in production?
How would you automate infrastructure using Terraform in AWS?
How would you handle disaster recovery in AWS?
How would you troubleshoot S3 access issues?
How would you manage IAM permissions securely?
How would you implement blue-green deployment in AWS?
How would you manage Kubernetes workloads in Amazon EKS?
How would you reduce downtime during deployments?
How would you troubleshoot RDS database performance issues?
How would you design a highly available AWS architecture?
How would you troubleshoot Auto Scaling group failures in AWS?
How would you manage centralized logging in AWS production environments?
How would you secure S3 buckets from public access?
How would you migrate on-premises applications to AWS cloud?
How would you handle SSL certificate and HTTPS configuration in AWS?
 Kubernetes pods are healthy but users still face downtime — what will you check first?

🔹 Jenkins deployment succeeded but production release failed — where will you investigate?

🔹 Auto Scaling launched more instances but response time still remains high — why?

🔹 Monitoring dashboards show healthy metrics but customer complaints continue — what could be missing?

🔹 Rollback succeeded but the issue still exists — what would be your next action?

🔹 Route 53 intermittently fails during traffic spikes — where will you start?

🔹 Docker containers restart continuously after deployment — what will you verify first?

☸️ Kubernetes
 10. Worker Node keeps restarting – how to resolve?
 11. Which Kubernetes resource is used to store tokens, secrets, and passwords?
 12. Readiness Probe in Kubernetes?
 13. Liveness Probe vs Readiness Probe
 14. Storage resources in a Pod
 15. ReplicaSet manifest
 16. NodePort range
 17. ClusterIP vs NodePort
 18. Default namespaces in Kubernetes

⸻

🔐 Networking & Security
 19. On what basis do we use SSL termination?
 20. What is SSL termination?

⸻

☁️ AWS
 21. Difference between Application Load Balancer and Network Load Balancer
 22. What is Amazon Route 53?
 23. Is Elastic IP single per AWS account?
 24. What are Security Groups?
 25. What is NACL?
 26. What is User Data in EC2?
******EC2 INTERVIEW QUESTIONS******

1. How do you troubleshoot high CPU usage in an EC2 instance?
 2. How do you recover a stopped EC2 instance that won’t start? 
3. How do you resize an EC2 instance without downtime? 
4. How do you attach and mount a new EBS volume to an EC2 instance? 
5. How do you create a custom AMI from an EC2 instance? 
6. How do you recover deleted data from an EC2 instance? 
7. How do you handle EC2 key pair loss? 
8. How do you connect to EC2 through a Bastion host? 
9. How do you troubleshoot slow SSH connections to EC2? 
10. How do you schedule EC2 instances to stop/start automatically? 
11. How do you migrate an EC2 instance between subnets or AZs? 
12. How do you use user data to install software automatically? 
13. How do you check system logs for EC2 boot errors? 
14. How do you increase EC2 root volume size? 
15. How do you enable detailed monitoring for EC2 instances? 
16. How do you troubleshoot failed EC2 instance status checks? 
17. How do you share an AMI with another AWS account? 
18. How do you attach multiple network interfaces to an EC2 instance? 
19. How do you recover corrupted EBS volumes from snapshots? 
20. How do you monitor EC2 disk I/O performance?
⸻
How you troubleshoot issues
How you make production decisions
Your debugging approach
RCA and recovery thinking
Real-world experience handling failures
They expect practical judgment, not just tool knowledge.

Here are some questions I faced during the interview 👇
AWS / Infrastructure Questions ☁️
If two EC2 instances need patching and they are under an Auto Scaling Group, how would you patch them without downtime?
How do you define Target Groups in AWS Load Balancer?
Explain AWS Lambda concurrency limits.
Difference between reserved concurrency and provisioned concurrency in Lambda.
How do you identify which AWS services/resources are public and which are private?
Explain gp2 and gp3 EBS volume types.
How do you perform disk separation in EC2 for application and monitoring workloads?
Which AWS tools/services do you use for disk management and monitoring?
Explain disaster recovery strategy in AWS.
How do you perform rollback during failures?
Kubernetes / EKS Questions ☸️
How do you upgrade AWS EKS clusters?
What precautions do you take before EKS upgrades?
If one pod is stuck in Pending state, how do you debug and fix it?
Users are noticing random 500 errors from the application — how do you troubleshoot?
How do you debug CrashLoopBackOff issues?
Difference between Deployment, StatefulSet, and DaemonSet.
How do you monitor Kubernetes clusters?
How do you troubleshoot high memory/CPU usage in pods?
How do you manage secrets in Kubernetes?
How does Kubernetes service discovery work?
Terraform Questions 🌍
Explain Terraform locals.
What are Terraform plugins/providers?
Difference between variables, locals, and outputs.
How do you manage Terraform remote state?
How do you handle Terraform drift?
What happens internally during terraform init?
💡 Tip:
Most questions were fundamental but scenario-based follow-ups were deep. Make sure your basics are strong + you can explain real-time use cases.

⸻
1. What’s the real difference between CPU bottleneck vs I/O bottleneck, and how do you identify each?
2. Why do systems fail even when CPU and memory look fine?
3. What actually happens when a Kubernetes Pod restarts?
4. Difference between readiness and liveness probes, and how each can break production.
5. What problem does infrastructure as code solve, and when can it become dangerous?
6. How does Terraform state work, and what happens when it drifts?
7. What’s the difference between horizontal and vertical scaling, and when should you avoid autoscaling?
8. Why do deployments succeed but users still see errors?
9. How do you decide between rollback vs hotfix during an incident?
10. What’s the difference between metrics, logs, and traces, and when do you start with each?
🔹 AWS
Explain how you would design a highly available EC2 architecture across multiple AZs for a web application.
How would you migrate a running EC2 instance to another region with minimal downtime?
If your EC2 instance is not reachable via SSH, what troubleshooting steps would you perform?
Your web application experiences unpredictable traffic spikes. How would you configure auto scaling policies to handle this while optimizing costs?
Explain a scenario where scheduled scaling is more appropriate than dynamic scaling.
Your S3 bucket storing critical backups becomes unavailable. How would you recover?
You want to audit all IAM users and roles for compliance. How would you do this?
Your organization needs to grant cross-account access to a partner. How would you implement it?
How would you secure S3 data in transit and at rest for compliance?
How would you connect an on-premises network securely to your VPC?
How would you deploy Lambda functions across multiple environments securely?

🔹 Docker
How do you handle multi-cloud Docker deployments with compliance restrictions?
You need live-patching of Docker host kernel without downtime. How do you achieve it?
How do you troubleshoot container DNS resolution failures?
How do you enforce policy-as-code for Docker security?

🔹 Kubernetes (K8s)
Your Ingress controller crashes repeatedly under heavy load. How do you stabilize it?
An entire Kubernetes region goes down. How do you failover workloads?
All pods in one namespace suddenly fail readiness checks. What’s your step to troubleshoot?
Your cluster is hit by a massive traffic surge, and HPA cannot scale pods fast enough. How do you handle it?
A node hosting critical workloads crashes permanently. How do you ensure workloads recover automatically?
A Pod is stuck in ImagePullBackOff. How do you troubleshoot?

🔹 Terraform
Your Terraform apply succeeded, but some resources are not behaving as expected. How do you debug?
How do you run Terraform safely in CI/CD pipelines?
Your Terraform state file is getting too large. How do you manage it?
A team needs to provision infra in 10 AWS regions simultaneously. How do you structure it?
You want faster Terraform runs in large projects. What optimizations would you apply?
A production deployment failed halfway, leaving some resources created and others not. How do you recover?
 What will you check first if production suddenly goes down after deployment?
🔹 What will you investigate if monitoring dashboards show healthy systems but users complain?
🔹 What will you verify if rollback succeeds but issue still exists?
🔹 What will you check if Kubernetes pods are healthy but traffic fails?
🔹 What will you investigate if Jenkins pipeline succeeds but release fails?
🔹 What will you verify if Auto Scaling launches new servers but latency remains high?
🔹 What will you check if Route 53 intermittently fails during traffic spikes?
🔹 What will you investigate if Docker containers restart continuously?
🔹 What will you verify if Terraform changes unexpectedly impact infrastructure?
🔹 What will you check if incidents repeat after RCA completion?

🔹 What is the difference between monitoring and observability?
🔹 What is the difference between Docker and Kubernetes?
🔹 What is the difference between blue-green and canary deployment?
🔹 What is the difference between ECS and EKS?
🔹 What is the difference between scaling and high availability?

🔹 What are the biggest troubleshooting blind spots?
🔹 What are the hidden risks in production systems?
🔹 What are the most important production support skills?
🔹 What are the common causes of repeated outages?
🔹 What is your production-first engineering mindset?
🔹 Prometheus & Grafana
How do you implement Kubernetes cluster-level monitoring using Prometheus?
How can you integrate Prometheus with Alertmanager and Slack for real-time notifications?
1.  Roles and responsibilities
2. Explain about  your current project
3. Explain the concept of pipeline as a code in Jenkins
4. How you will manually trigger the Jenkins job in the manual checking is required for developer
5. What are agents and runners
6. How you will deploy the new Jenkins deployment by zero down time
7. Explain the concept of how will create multi stage jobs in Jenkins
8. Docker images vs docker container
9. Kubernetes deployment vs stateful sets
10. Pod struck in crash loopback error how will you troubleshoot
11. One job working fine in dev environment and not working in production how will you troubleshoot
12. One stage is failed in Jenkins pipeline due to credentials issue how you will make it work
13. One pod not reachable to other pod in Kubernetes
14. Explain the deployment strategy used in your organisation
15. How you will create monitoring dashboard for your organisation
16. Explain logs, metrics and traces
17. Write a script to alert cpu utilisation is 80%
18. How you will alert cpu utilisation is 80% in prometues
19. Graphana dashboard is responding slow , how will you troubleshoot
20. Explain the branching strategy in your organisation
21. How do you ensure zero-downtime deployments?
22. what is the difference between liveness and readiness probes
🔹 Terraform

What is a Terraform state file and why is it important?
How does Terraform state locking work?
What is the difference between local and remote backend?
How do you import an existing resource into Terraform?
What happens if the Terraform state file is deleted?
What is a Terraform module?
How do you call a local module?
What is the purpose of terraform taint or -replace?
How does Terraform handle dependencies between resources?
What are workspaces in Terraform?

AWS
What is Assume Role and how does it work?
What is AWS STS?
Difference between IAM policy and Trust policy?
How does cross-account access work in AWS?
What is a Service Control Policy (SCP)?
What happens if SCP denies but IAM allows?
How do you securely copy S3 data between two AWS accounts?
How does IAM role attached to EC2 work?
Difference between public subnet vs private subnet?
what is EBS, S3, EFS?

🔹 Docker
Write a Dockerfile for a simple web application.
Difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT?
What is the difference between COPY and ADD?
How do you reduce Docker image size?
What are Docker layers?
how to get running container ip address?
☸️ Kubernetes🔹 What will you check first if production suddenly goes down after deployment?
🔹 What will you investigate if monitoring dashboards look healthy but customers complain?
🔹 What will you verify if rollback deployment succeeds but issue still exists?
🔹 What will you check if Kubernetes pods are healthy but APIs fail intermittently?
🔹 What will you investigate if Auto Scaling launches new servers but latency remains high?
🔹 What will you verify if CI/CD succeeds technically but release fails functionally?
🔹 What will you check if Route 53 intermittently fails during traffic spikes?
🔹 What will you investigate if Terraform changes unexpectedly impact infrastructure?
🔹 What will you verify if Docker containers restart continuously in production?
🔹 What will you check if incidents repeat after RCA completion?

🔹 What is the difference between Docker and Kubernetes?
🔹 What is the difference between monitoring and observability?
🔹 What is the difference between blue-green and canary deployment?
🔹 What is the difference between scaling and high availability?
🔹 What is the difference between incident management and problem management?

🔹 What are the biggest troubleshooting blind spots during outages?
🔹 What are the hidden risks in cloud-native systems?
🔹 What are the most important production support skills for engineers?
🔹 What are the common causes of repeated production incidents?
🔹 What is your production-first engineering mindset?
• A Kubernetes Pod is stuck in CrashLoopBackOff. How would you troubleshoot and resolve it?
🏗️ Terraform
• What would you do if a Terraform deployment failed due to a state file lock?
• What happens if a Terraform-managed resource is manually deleted outside Terraform but still exists in the code?
• During terraform apply, if Terraform plans to delete critical resources unexpectedly, how would you handle it?
🚀 CI/CD & Deployments
• How would you optimize a CI/CD pipeline if execution time increases significantly (1–1.5 hours)?
• Explain deployment strategies like Blue-Green, Rolling, and Canary deployments.
☁️ Architecture & Production Scenarios
• How would you design a highly available production-grade microservices architecture across multiple environments?
• A critical incident occurred in production. How would you handle and troubleshoot it?
• Can you explain the concept of Immutable Infrastructure and its advantages?
🐧 Linux & Automation
• Can you write a shell script to monitor application health and automatically restart the application if it goes down?
📊 Monitoring
• How does proactive monitoring and alerting help reduce downtime in production environments?
🔹 Scenario-Based
How do you design highly available infrastructure in AWS?
How do you handle secret management securely?
What are best practices for production Terraform usage?
How do you troubleshoot a server that is not reachable?
How do you design cross-account governance in AWS?
Day-to-Day & Cloud Basics
1. Explain your day-to-day activities as a DevOps/SRE engineer.
2. What is cloud migration?
3. What is a VPC?
4. What is a subnet and a NAT Gateway?
5. If the private IP you were using is no longer available, what steps will you take?
6. Explain the different types of block storage.
7. What is Amazon S3?
8. What are S3 storage classes, and which one have you used?
9. What will you do if a file upload fails?
10. Where is cache used in AWS?
11. What is the difference between NLB & ALB

Git, Versioning & Automation
12. Which branching strategy have you worked with in your project?
13. Write a command to create a branch in Git.
14. Why is versioning important?
15. What automation tools have you used?

Jenkins & CI/CD
16. What are the components of Jenkins?
17. What are agents in Jenkins?
18. How do you secure your CI/CD pipeline?
19. Explain the stages in a CI/CD pipeline.
20. Write the stages of a typical CI/CD pipeline.
21. What is the difference between on and job in a YAML pipeline?

Terraform
22. What are data blocks in Terraform?
23. What are Terraform modules?
24. How do you secure your Terraform code?
25. What is a UAT environment in Terraform?

Docker
26. Write a simple Dockerfile.
27. What is the difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT?

Kubernetes
28. Explain Kubernetes architecture.
29. How did you deploy an application on Kubernetes?
30. Write basic Kubernetes commands.
31. How do you secure a Kubernetes application?
32. What is HPA (Horizontal Pod Autoscaling)?
33. What are Config Maps and Secrets?
34. What is a Persistent Volume?
35. What steps do you follow if a pod fails?
36. Why do pod restarts?
37. Why do we perform rollbacks?
38. What will you do if a CrashLoopBackOff occurs?
39. Through which Kubernetes service did you expose the application?

Monitoring & SRE
40. What monitoring tools have you used?
41. How do metrics get into Prometheus?
42. How did you identify issues from an SRE perspective?
43. Explain what you have worked on in AWS CloudWatch.

Python Scripting
44. What is the difference between a list and a tuple in Python?
45. Create a list and replace the value at the second position with another value.
46. Write a Python function that prints: “Hello, please enter your name”.
47. Write a Python script to notify when a server goes down.
48. Write a Python script to list the first 10 S3 buckets in AWS.

Bash & Linux
49. Write a simple Bash script you have used in your project.
50. What is the sed command used for?

1. Tell me about your roles and responsibilities (DevOps)

Strong answer:

In my DevOps role, I was responsible for automating infrastructure, CI/CD pipelines, and ensuring reliable application delivery. I worked on provisioning AWS infrastructure using Terraform, managing Kubernetes workloads, setting up monitoring and logging, and handling deployments with minimal downtime. I also collaborated with developers to containerize applications, troubleshoot production issues, and improve system reliability and security.

What interviewers actually listen for:

Automation (Terraform, CI/CD)

Cloud + Kubernetes

Ownership during failures

❌ Weak answer: “I worked on AWS, Docker, Kubernetes”
That tells them nothing.

2. How can you tell a subnet is public or private?

Exact answer:
A subnet is public if:

Its route table has a route 0.0.0.0/0 → Internet Gateway (IGW)

A subnet is private if:

It does NOT route traffic directly to IGW

Usually routes 0.0.0.0/0 → NAT Gateway

How to check practically:

AWS Console → VPC → Subnets → Route Table


❗ Public/private is NOT decided by subnet name.
If you say that, you fail.

3. What is Load Balancer in AWS & differences?

Load Balancer: Distributes traffic across multiple targets for availability and scalability.

Types:

ALB (Application LB)

Layer 7 (HTTP/HTTPS)

Path & host-based routing

Used with microservices, Kubernetes (Ingress)

NLB (Network LB)

Layer 4 (TCP/UDP)

Ultra-low latency, static IP

Used for high-performance workloads

CLB (Classic)

Legacy, avoid unless forced

Interview tip:
If you say “ALB is for web apps, NLB for performance”, you’re safe.

4. AWS keys/passwords leaked — what action would you take?

Correct incident response order:

Immediately deactivate the compromised keys

Rotate keys and passwords

Check CloudTrail for suspicious activity

Identify blast radius (EC2, S3, IAM changes)

Apply least-privilege IAM policies

Enable MFA

Post-incident review

❌ Saying “I will change password” only = amateur.

5. NAT Gateway vs Internet Gateway
Feature	IGW	NAT GW
Internet access	Inbound + Outbound	Outbound only
Used by	Public subnet	Private subnet
Security	Exposed	Safer
Needs public IP	Yes	Yes (for NAT itself)
6. Why NAT Gateway is in a public subnet?

Because:

NAT Gateway needs internet access

It must talk to IGW

Private subnets route traffic to NAT, not internet directly

If NAT were in private subnet → no internet → useless.

7. git pull vs git fetch

git fetch → Downloads changes without merging

git pull → git fetch + git merge

Professional workflow:

git fetch origin
git diff origin/main
git merge origin/main


❌ Blind git pull in production branches = red flag.

8. Use of git cherry-pick

Used to apply a specific commit from one branch to another.

Example:

git cherry-pick <commit-id>


Use case:

Hotfix from dev → prod

Avoid merging entire branch

❗ Overuse = messy history.

9. Kubernetes commands you have used

Group them like this (interviewers love structure):

Basic:

kubectl get pods/nodes/svc
kubectl describe pod <name>
kubectl logs <pod>


Deployment:

kubectl apply -f file.yaml
kubectl delete -f file.yaml
kubectl rollout status deployment/app
kubectl rollout undo deployment/app


Debugging:

kubectl exec -it pod -- bash
kubectl get events

10. Why pods fail to start on a node?

Common reasons:

Insufficient CPU/memory

ImagePullBackOff

Node not ready

Taints & tolerations

CNI/network issue

Volume mount failure

Debug flow:

kubectl describe pod
kubectl describe node
kubectl get events

11. How do you troubleshoot ImagePullBackOff?

Steps:

kubectl describe pod

Check image name & tag

Check registry access

Verify imagePullSecrets

Test pulling image manually on node

12. Causes of ImagePullBackOff

Wrong image name/tag

Private registry auth missing

Registry down

Network/DNS issue

Rate limits (Docker Hub)

13. StatefulSet vs Deployment vs DaemonSet
Feature	Deployment	StatefulSet	DaemonSet
Identity	No	Yes	No
Use case	Stateless apps	Databases	Node agents
Volumes	Shared	Stable per pod	Optional
Scaling	Easy	Ordered	Per node
14. Do Deployments use volumes? Which volumes used?

Yes.

Common volumes:

emptyDir

configMap

secret

persistentVolumeClaim

Real-world:
Deployment + PVC for apps that need storage.

15. How is HPA set up & which component manages metrics?

Setup:

HPA uses CPU/memory/custom metrics

Requires Metrics Server

Flow:

Metrics Server → kube-apiserver → HPA → Deployment


Logs are NOT used by HPA.
If you say logs, you’re wrong.

16. Provisioner vs Provider (Terraform)

Provider → Talks to APIs (AWS, Azure)

Provisioner → Executes scripts (local-exec, remote-exec)

❗ Provisioners are last resort, not best practice.

17. How to remove Terraform drift?

Steps:

terraform plan

Identify drift

Either:

Update code

Or terraform apply to re-align

Best practice:

Avoid manual changes in cloud

Lock down permissions

18. What if Terraform state file is deleted?

Terraform loses tracking

Resources still exist

You risk duplicate creation or deletion

Recovery:

terraform import


Worst case: rebuild infra manually.

19. How did you manage Terraform state reliability?

Correct answer:

Remote backend (S3)

Versioning enabled

State locking via DynamoDB

Restricted access

❌ Local state file = junior mistake.

20. How team handles modules & how many used?

Good answer:

We used Terraform modules for reusable components like VPC, EC2, ALB, EKS, and IAM. Each module was versioned and stored in a central repository. In our project, we used around 5–8 modules to maintain consistency and reduce duplication.

Interviewers care about:

Reusability

Versioning

Clean structure
